README.md, before:

# Cluster-Project
Clustering Project for Codeup by Jennifer Lewis and Peter Chavez.
 Creating a prediction model based on Zillow data from 2017 for Single Family properties using clustering techniques.

## <a name="project_description"></a>Project Description:
The purpose of this project is to aquire tax data from the year 2017 from a Zillow database, create clusters to train a model to predict the logerror on future house sales of Single Family properties, and utilize that model to make predictions from a group of unknown house sales.

Goals: 
 - Create a model that can predict the logerror with greater accuracy than baseline.


## <a name="planning"></a>Project Planning: 


### Project Outline:
- Acquire, clean, and prepare the 2017 Zillow data from the database.
- Explore the data to determine what features could be usefull for clustering and modeling.
- Establish a baseline root mean square error to compare to later, split the data appropriately, and then train three different regression models.
- Evaluate the models on the train and validate datasets.
- Use the single best model on the test data to evaluate its performance.
- Create a .csv file with the logerror and the model's predictions for each observation in the test data.
- Include conclusions, takeaways, recommendations, and next steps in the final report.

## <a name="dictionary"></a>Data Dictionary  

| Model Target Feature | Definition | Data Type |
| ----- | ----- | ----- |
| logerror | The difference between the Zillow estimate for property price and what the property was actually sold for. | float |

---
| Feature | Definition | Data Type |
| ----- | ----- | ----- |
| fips | A code used to identify the region the sale of the property occured down to the county. | |
| | https://transition.fcc.gov/oet/info/maps/census/fips/fips.txt | int |
| parcelid | A unique code used to identify the specific property in the transaction. | int |
| bedrooms | The number of bedrooms in the home. | float |
| bathrooms | The number of bathrooms in the home. | float |
| area | The total square footage of the property. | float |
| acres | The total lot size scaled by 43560 sq ft/acre. | float |
| age | The year that the home was sold compared to when it was originally built. | int |
| taxamount | The amount of taxes piad yearly on the property as of 2017. | float |
| LA | The specified county according to the FIPS number 6037. | int |
| Orange | The specified county according to the FIPS number 6059. | int |
| Ventura | The specified county according to the FIPS number 6111. | int |
| structure_dollar_per_sqft | The cost per square foot of the property. | float |
| bath_bed_ratio | The ratio of bathrooms to bedrooms. This helps to compare the use of the sq ft of a property. | float |


## <a name="wrangle"></a>Data Acquisition and Preparation

A function is used to acquire the data via a SQL query. The data is then prepared by another function in the following way:

- Deletes the id columns that contained redundent information
- Drops unnamed columns accidentally created during .csv creation.
- Removes outlying data that may too heavily skew our training models.
- Converts the datatypes of the columns to usable ones.
- Creates dummy columns for the FIPS values.
- Splits the data into an 80% training set, a 20% validate set, and a 20% testing set with 'tax_val' as the target.



## <a name="explore"></a>Data Exploration:

### Searching for Cluster Features

The features were all plotted and several were binned to peek at variance, counts, and distributions. A choice was made to focus

### Exploring the remaining columns





### SelectKBest and RFE



### Data Exploration Takeaways:



## <a name="model"></a>Modeling:

#### Clustering



#### Training Stats
| Model | rmse | r2_score |
| ---- | ---- | ---- |
| Baseline | .436  | - |
| OLS | 195242.06 | 0.190 |  
| LassoLars | 195240.73 | 0.190 |  
| GLM | 195075.16 | 0.191 |  

- Which model was chosen?

## Testing

- 

#### Testing Stats
| Model | rmse | r2_score |
| ---- | ---- | ---- |
| Baseline | .436  | - |
| OLS_test | 138057.02 | 0.436  |  

## <a name="conclusion"></a>Conclusions:

- 

## <a name="next_steps"></a>Next steps:

- 
-

Commit message:

Updated README to include all findings from the final report.

README.md, after:

# Cluster-Project
Clustering Project for Codeup by Jennifer Lewis and Peter Chavez.
 Creating a prediction model based on Zillow data from 2017 for Single Family properties using clustering techniques.

## <a name="project_description"></a>Project Description:
The purpose of this project is to aquire tax data from the year 2017 from a Zillow database, create clusters to train a model to predict the logerror on future house sales of Single Family properties, and utilize that model to make predictions from a group of unknown house sales.

Goals: 
 - Create a model that can predict the logerror with greater accuracy than baseline.


## <a name="planning"></a>Project Planning: 


### Project Outline:
- Acquire, clean, and prepare the 2017 Zillow data from the database.
- Explore the data to determine what features could be usefull for clustering and modeling.
- Establish a baseline root mean square error to compare to later, split the data appropriately, and then train three different regression models.
- Evaluate the models on the train and validate datasets.
- Use the single best model on the test data to evaluate its performance.
- Create a .csv file with the logerror and the model's predictions for each observation in the test data.
- Include conclusions, takeaways, recommendations, and next steps in the final report.

## <a name="dictionary"></a>Data Dictionary  

| Model Target Feature | Definition | Data Type |
| ----- | ----- | ----- |
| logerror | The difference between the Zillow estimate for property price and what the property was actually sold for. | float |

---
| Feature | Definition | Data Type |
| ----- | ----- | ----- |
| fips | A code used to identify the region the sale of the property occured down to the county. | |
| | https://transition.fcc.gov/oet/info/maps/census/fips/fips.txt | int |
| parcelid | A unique code used to identify the specific property in the transaction. | int |
| bedrooms | The number of bedrooms in the home. | float |
| bathrooms | The number of bathrooms in the home. | float |
| area | The total square footage of the property. | float |
| acres | The total lot size scaled by 43560 sq ft/acre. | float |
| age | The year that the home was sold compared to when it was originally built. | int |
| taxamount | The amount of taxes piad yearly on the property as of 2017. | float |
| LA | The specified county according to the FIPS number 6037. | int |
| Orange | The specified county according to the FIPS number 6059. | int |
| Ventura | The specified county according to the FIPS number 6111. | int |
| structure_dollar_per_sqft | The cost per square foot of the property. | float |
| bath_bed_ratio | The ratio of bathrooms to bedrooms. This helps to compare the use of the sq ft of a property. | float |


## <a name="wrangle"></a>Data Acquisition and Preparation

A function is used to acquire the data via a SQL query. The data is then prepared by another function in the following way:

- Deletes the id columns that contained redundent information
- Drops unnamed columns accidentally created during .csv creation.
- Removes outlying data that may too heavily skew our training models.
- Converts the datatypes of the columns to usable ones.
- Creates dummy columns for the FIPS values.
- Splits the data into an 80% training set, a 20% validate set, and a 20% testing set with 'tax_val' as the target.

## <a name="explore"></a>Data Exploration:

### Searching for Cluster Features

The features were all plotted and several were binned to peek at variance, counts, and distributions. A choice was made to focus on features that reflect the size of the property or the value. The ones that showed the most promise were selected to be explored for clustering.

### Data Exploration Takeaways:

It was difficult to see what values would be very valuable for clustering. It seems like more time is need to feature engineer new variables to cast. 

## <a name="model"></a>Modeling:

#### Clustering

Four cluster groups were made: structure_dollar_per_sqft, area_bedbath_clusters, acre_bath_value, areas_valuepsqft. These were assigned their own dummy columns to run supervised learning on. First a baseline was established. Then, the models chosen for Linear Regression on the clusters were OLS, LassoLars, and a parabolic Polynomial Regression. 

#### Training Stats
| Model | rmse | r2_score |
| ---- | ---- | ---- |
| Baseline | .018  | - |
| OLS | 0.17 | -0.144 |  
| LassoLars | 0.17 | -0,00 |  
| Polynomial | 0.17 | -0.0 |  

- Which model was chosen?

The OLS model was chosen because an interesting highly negative RNSE was returned. This allowed further investigation on how it is measured through testing.

## Testing

-  OLS Model

#### Testing Stats
| Model | rmse | r2_score |
| ---- | ---- | ---- |
| Baseline | .018  | - |
| OLS_test | .21 | -o.308  |  

## <a name="conclusion"></a>Conclusions:

- Upon further research, it was found that the r2_score can go negative. This indicates that the modeling is arbitrarily worse than the baseline. This was not encouraging at all, but it did suggest that the features that were used to cluster were not nearly cohesive enough to make predictions.

## <a name="next_steps"></a>Next steps:

- More time is needed to feature engineer much better clusters. These new clusters should probably include features that focus on location. 
- Further investigation into clustering and linear regression is required to determine if it is the best course of predicting the logerror.
